# CS_405_Secure_Coding

## **Adoption of a secure coding standard, and not leaving security to the end**
Adopting a secure coding standard is a way of enforcing a stronger security mindset for all your developers, and in a way, makes them stronger in general. Secure coding does entail more detailed logic, and some early developers often overlook security vulnerabilities when coding their applications. Leaving security to the end means that the entire pipeline that was intended to streamline production now needs to be halted and slowed down to a crawl in order to shove elements of security into other defined phases. Rather than incorporating it from the start, it will cost more money for developers to refactor the code that they had assumed was done and out of their minds. It’s going to cause delays in production builds which could hurt the company financially and its reputation with clients or investors.
## **Evaluation and assessment of risk and cost benefit of mitigation**
Assessing the risks and cost benefits of mitigation deals with the idea that sometimes you have to spend a bit of money in extra development that adheres to your security policies and in return, your risks of attacks are mitigated, or reduced. Now it is impossible to ever create a flawless system unless somehow an intelligent AI system was smart and flexible enough to predict all attacks and immediately patch over all vulnerabilities before they become a problem. Until such a time as that is a viable possibility, you must always assume that any system has some form of vulnerability, whether one comes down the road through new attack formations, or by a third-party patch that accidentally opens a vulnerability that you could never predict. Now another concert about costs versus benefit, is when a company tries to add so many layers that it feels more “secure,” but it ends up impeding the actual application with performance issues or introducing new vulnerabilities when one layer interferes with another. You should have sufficient layers to provide a solid layer of defense, without risking additional vulnerabilities or performance degradation and passing that along to your users.
## **Zero trust**
Having a zero-trust policy means that nothing that didn’t originate from the application itself can’t be trusted. That means no user input, no input stream, no feed of any kind. All data that does not originate from within the application itself must be validated and then sanitized so that it can be checked for bad input, or even attack strings like SQL injection attacks or Cross-Site Scripting. Zero-trust. This requires additional functions to perform such checks, but the small loss in performance is well worth the cost in keeping your data secure.
## **Implementation and recommendations of security policies**
Implementing the security policies is crucial to the safety of the company’s assets, physical or otherwise. The security policies should be treated like a living document that lives and breathes and every now and again, it needs an update, otherwise your security becomes outdated and exposed to all sorts of vulnerabilities or attacks. A good security policy should not solely be about recommendations, but about all members of your team adhering strictly to the guidelines laid out in the policy. You can offer recommendations for revisions, but every recommendation should be followed up by a meaningful rationale and a cost-benefit analysis.
